---
layout: post
title:  Release 1.0.0
categories: News
---

## Release 1.0.0 available for download

We are pleased to announce the release of Adapt It Mobile 1.0.0 for Android and iOS, available today through the Google Play store and Apple Store.

Adapt It Mobile is a simple related language translation editor designed for mobile devices. Using a tablet or smartphone, you can use Adapt It Mobile to quickly translate text from one language to another related language. This app is a ground-up rewrite of the Adapt It desktop application, written specifically for mobile devices.

Adapt It Mobile can import and export the following:

- Clipboard text
- USFM markup files: .usfm, .sfm, .usx
- Adapt It (desktop) documents: .xml
- Plain-text files: .txt

Known Issues

- Adapt It Mobile currently does not automatically merge phrases as it parses through the text. This feature is considered a high priority, and will be implemented in a patch release of Adapt It Mobile (issue #353)
- Adapt It Mobile currently does not have a way of directly editing the Knowledge Base. Entries are added and removed from the Knowledge Base as the user adds, removes, and edits the translations in the text. The capability to edit the Knowledge Base directly will be added to a future release of Adapt It Mobile (issue #274)
- Adapt It Mobile currently only supports a single translation project. Support for multiple translation projects will be implemented in a future release of Adapt It Mobile (issues #100, #358, #359)

For those updating from 1.0 Release Candidate 3, this release contains the following bug fixes:

- After a successful document export to a file, added the folder and filename of the file being exported (#349).
- Fixed several places where automatic capitalization was not working properly (#350, #360)
- Fixed several places where the long-press selection was not being cancelled properly (#354, 356)

These issues can be found [in our issue tracker](https://github.com/adapt-it/adapt-it-mobile/milestone/28?closed=1).

Please refer to the [Adapt It Mobile Wiki site](https://github.com/adapt-it/adapt-it-mobile/wiki#using-adapt-it-mobile) for instructions on installing. Issues and enhancement requests can be reported through our [issues page](https://github.com/adapt-it/adapt-it-mobile/issues). Thanks!


- [Source code (zip)](https://github.com/adapt-it/adapt-it-mobile/archive/1.0.0.zip)
- [Source code (tar.gz)](https://github.com/adapt-it/adapt-it-mobile/archive/1.0.0.tar.gz)

